---
title: Meet SeaJS
subtitle: or How to get your code modulized
klass: basic
layout: post
---

SeaJS implements its module system according to CMD, [_Common Module Definition_](https://github.com/seajs/seajs/issues/242).
But we are not getting there yet. Let's start from the basics.

First thing first, SeaJS isn't magic.
Like other libraries in the JavaScript world, SeaJS is written in pure JavaScript too.

So you need to load it in your page first.

{% highlight html %}
<script src="sea.js"></script>
{% endhighlight %}

And like `$` from jQuery, SeaJS is used via global object and function.
Namely, `seajs` and `define`.

With SeaJS, we can define some module.

{% highlight js %}
define('console', function(require, exports) {
    exports.log = function(msg) {
        if (window.console && console.log) {
            console.log(msg);
        }
        else {
            alert(msg);
        }
    };
});
{% endhighlight %}

And use it.

{% highlight js %}
seajs.use('console', function(console) {
    // now you can stop worrying about whether or not `console` is provided.
    // use it freely!
    console.log('hello world!');

    // well, we need to enhance the `console` module a bit.
    // for methods like console.warn, and method calls like console.log(msg1, msg2, msg3);
});
{% endhighlight %}

What about module dependencies? Here comes `require`

{% highlight js %}
define('jordan', function(require, exports) {
    // you can require inline
    exports.championship = function() {
        // Michael and Scottie should be together!
        return require('pippen').hasJoined();
    };

    // or, you can require module in the head.
    var rodman = require('rodman');

    exports.next3 = function() {
        // Dennis is the monster
        return require('rodman').hasJoined();
    };
});
{% endhighlight %}

Also, if your module provides nothing but pure Object or String,
you can define it directly.

{% highlight js %}
// Object
define({ foo: 1 });

// String
define('hello world');
{% endhighlight %}

But we need our code splitted into different files!
Hang on. That is exactly what SeaJS is good at.
