---
title: Asynchronous JavaScript Modules
subtitle: or Why is SeaJS implemented this way.
klass: async
---

Now comes the cliche. The creator, Brendan Eich, implemented it within weeks.
The initial goal was to be able to write snippets to make the web more interactive, a little.
So, that results in some drawbacks of this language.
Dauglas Crockford summarized some of those in the book _JavaScript: The Good Parts_.

Being lack of module system is one of those drawbacks.
Some of you might heared or tried Node.js, that is module support of JavaScript done right.

But there are some interesting facts of JavaScript in the browser land.

 - You can insert a `script` tag via js with an `@src` to load js dynamically.
 - You can listen on that `script` tag's `onload`, `onerror` or `oncomplete` events.

Well, browsers have there inconsistencies in the event stuff of `script` tag.
But it's solved in SeaJS! ...almost!

With that two fact combined, we can do some thing like this:

 1. Load the bootstrap js
 2. Load different modules accordingly
 3. Perform tasks when those modules were loaded!

That's what SeaJS is all about.

We load it to bootstrap:

{% highlight html %}
<!-- the library and your app -->
<script src="sea.js"></script>
<script src="app.js"></script>
{% endhighlight %}

As a matter of fact, SeaJS also provide a shortcut for bootstraping your app.
So instead of two script tags, you can load it via `@data-main`.

{% highlight html %}
<!-- more compact way -->
<script src="sea.js" data-main="./app"></script>
{% endhighlight %}

`./` means relative to current page url. Given page url `http://foo.com/hello/world.html`,
SeaJS will load `http://foo.com/hello/app.js`.

The `./app` is called module id in SeaJS. Instead of relative way,
you can write module id in absolute path. Well, not so absolute.
In this example, `hello/app` refers to `base` path + module id + `.js`.

What is `base` path?
SeaJS uses `base` to resolve module uri if the module id does not start with an `.`.
It can be configured:

{% highlight js %}
seajs.config({
    base: '/'
});
{% endhighlight %}

With `base` configured, now `hello/app` will be resolved to `http://foo.com/hello/app.js`.

When you require module within module, the rules are the same.
Relative paths will be solved relative to current module uri.

{% highlight js %}
// http://foo.com/worker/carpenter.js
define(function(require, exports) {
    var hammer = require('../util/hammer');

    exports.nail = function() {
        hammer.smash();
    };
});
{% endhighlight %}

That hammer is `http://foo.com/util/hammer.js`.

The Only difference with Node.js, is that your module code (and your app code)
needs to be wrapped in a typical `define` callback.

{% highlight js %}
define(id, dependencies, function(require, exports, module) {
    // module code.
});
{% endhighlight %}

The `id` and `dependencies` parameters can be omitted.

`id` is used mostly when your project went online.
All of your modules used in that page gets combined into one file.
SeaJS can not guess which modules is which by that script's `@src`.
Normally you will not need to use that.

`dependencies` is the other parameter used only in combined js files in normal circumstances.
It list out what modules current module is dependent on.
But you don't have to provide that list when you are writing a module.
SeaJS will inspect your module callback and find out all of the `require` statements,
and therefore, get all of your module's dependencies.

That relies on important rules.

 - You should not rename `require`
 - You should not rewrite `require`

Think `requrie` as a reserved word in JavaScript programming language.
You're good to go.